Dear Dr. Mignozzetti,

The review of your manuscript, "Legislature Size and Welfare: Evidence from
Brazil," is now complete. The referee reports are included in this message. The
referees agree that this paper has solid potential to make a significant
contribution to the literature, and we agree. But we also share the reviewers'
belief that the manuscript can be improved. Thus, we invite you to revise and
resubmit the paper to the American Journal of Political Science.

In revising the manuscript, you should note that each reviewer raises a few
questions or makes a few suggestions. Overall, their comments are relatively
positive and their suggestions for revision relatively limited.  We ask that
you take each into account as you work on a revision.

When you return the revision, please provide a memorandum explaining how you
have responded, or why you have chosen not to respond, to the points we mention
above and to the issues the referees raised in their initial reviews. The
memorandum should be completely anonymous. We will not impose a strict length
limit, but please try to make your response as succinct as possible. About five
single-spaced pages (or fewer) would be ideal.

In addition to responding to the various comments, critiques, and suggestions
from the reviewers and us, the revised version of the manuscript must conform
to the same formatting, anonymity, and length requirements (no longer than
10,000 words) that were used for the original submission. The revision should
be submitted online through Editorial Manager. Similarly, your memorandum
responding to the referees should be inserted into the Editorial Manager text
box labeled "Response to Reviewers" or uploaded as a separate Word or PDF
document, ordered first, and labeled "Response to Reviewers."  

Note that if you return a Supplemental Information (SI) file with your
revision, it should be limited to the approximate length of the SI on the
original submission, or no longer than 20 pages if there was no SI submitted
with the original submission. We are happy to make exceptions to the 20-page
limit when additional pages are required to respond to explicit issues raised
by reviewers. Just email us to request an exception.

Please keep in mind that, regardless of the changes you make to the current
manuscript, there are simply no guarantees about the final outcome, as
reviewers may not be satisfied with the revisions, or the revisions may reveal
"new" concerns. We will send the revised manuscript to the three original
reviewers and evaluate the revisions carefully before making a final decision.
We always intend to terminate the review process after one revision, so to move
forward all reviewers must endorse publication.

Please inform us if you will not be resubmitting the manuscript, or if
preparing the revision will take more than three months. If a revised
submission is not received within six months, we may withdraw the offer to
revise and resubmit.  

If you have any questions or concerns regarding the review process, please
contact us at ajps@mpsanet.org.

Congratulations on the R&R. We look forward to receiving your revised
manuscript.

Best,

Graeme Robertson, Associate Editor
Professor, UNC at Chapel Hill
Email: robertson@ajps.org

and

Kathleen Dolan and Jennifer L. Lawless, Co-Editors-in-Chief

Kathleen Dolan
Professor, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Email: dolan@ajps.org


Jennifer L. Lawless
Professor, University of Virginia
Email: lawless@ajps.org


##########  REFEREE REPORTS FOLLOW  ##########

Reviewer #1: The submission "Legislature Size and Welfare: Evidence from
Brazil" is a well written, methodologically sound article that sheds important
light on the topic of comparative legislative size. Specifically the study
makes important contributions to the literature in multilateral bargaining, the
effects of larger legislatures in service provision, municipal partisan
politics and the causes and effects of legislative size. The finding that
increased council size results in gains in elementary school enrollment and in
lower infant mortality is a significant development that should underscored in
the debate over the optimal legislative size that has raged for decades. The
breadth of these contributions distinguish the study and make it something
readers of AJPS would find of interest. I would support publication in AJPS
pending minor modifications the authors should be able to successfully address
during the revision process. These concerns are listed below.

Overall the literature review is strong. I would recommend a couple of
additions. Include among them is an important work the authors should cite on
legislative size and spending and that is Gilligan and Matsusaka's 2001 article
entitled ""Fiscal Policy, Legislature Size, and Political Parties: Evidence
from the First Half of the Twentieth Century." Their findings are relevant for
this study and should be referenced. In addition, the recently published book
Population and Politics: The Impact of Scale by Gerring and Veenendaal which
has a comprehensive analysis of this topic should also be incorporated into the
literature review.

In examining the relationship between legislative size and welfare why were
education and health care selected as the independent variables? Was that
decision based on data availability or were there another basis for the
decision? It is not clear in the text of the manuscript.

The details of the online survey conducted of Brazilian city councilors are
lacking. What is the empirical contribution to the study? Beyond the online
format what were the other administrative details involved with collecting that
data?

The models include a dummy variable for the northeast region. What specifically
about this region would require adding it to the model. I am generally
skeptical about including such a variable particularly since clustered standard
errors are being estimated for municipal level. Is there logical reason to
control for regional effects here? Very curious modeling decision by the
authors.


Reviewer #2: "Legislature Size and Welfare: Evidence from Brazil" is that
extremely rare paper for which I am not only happy to recommend publication but
I have no consequential concerns that need to be addressed. This is an exemplar
of how, in my view, political science should be done. The paper contains a
simple, but not simplistic, formal model that blends the bargaining concerns of
Baron-Ferejohn with the resource allocation concerns of Bueno de Mesquita et
al. The model yields new results that are theoretically interesting, important,
testable and tested! The diff-in-diff design is exactly right for assessing how
a rule change in Brazil altered the size of municipal councils and how that
influenced public goods provision. The author(s) include checks on alternative
model specifications and on alternative test designs. This is a first rate
piece of research.

One minor issue for the author(s) to consider in future research: on p. 14 the
paper states, ". On average, municipal taxes account for only 5% of the local
budgets, while mandatory transfers from state and federal governments
correspond to the remaining 95%. This reduces the ability of municipal
legislators to effectively increase local spending, which makes improvements in
local services dependent only on the composition of their local investments."
There is an alternative mechanism that the author(s) has not considered and
that has been shown to work in resource allocations to municipalities in Japan
under similar circumstances. A recent paper by Amy Catalinac, Bruce Bueno de
Mesquita and Alastair Smith tests a formal model in which variance in
centrally-provided local municipality resources is a function of a tournament
among municipalities within a larger legislative district ("A Tournament Theory
of Pork Barrel Politics: The Case of Japan" Comparative Political Studies
2020). Perhaps future research might compare the impact of the tournament
structure with the local city council effects in Brazil as studied here.


Reviewer #3: This paper combines a formal model and subnational evidence from
Brazil to explore the relationship between the size of a legislature (in this
case referring to city councils) and policies aimed at improving well-being.
The main argument is that larger legislatures are more likely to support a
mayor's welfare priorities IF the additional council members are of the same
party. The paper brings an impressive set of empirical evidence to the question
and employs a clever and sophisticated regression discontinuity model, taking
advantage of an externally imposed change in rules for city council size.

Overall, I think this is a promising paper and I have a few questions and
suggestions aimed at strengthening it.

First, the central story rests on some assumptions that I would like to see
justified. Do mayor's generally want to spend more, and the city council holds
them back? Why? I wonder about this assumption. Why does increasing the size of
the city council usually result in pro-mayor additions? Under what conditions
might increasing the size of the council bring in more diverse viewpoints or
more polarized policy stances?

Second, what role is partisanship playing? It seems like it is mainly a proxy
for agreement between councilors and the mayor, but do different parties have
strongly different policy preferences? Does that matter for the results
presented here?

Finally, I wonder about the scope conditions. The evidence for the patterns
presented from Brazil are very convincing, but I'd like to see more discussion
of why these patterns hold in Brazil and how they might be different/ similar
elsewhere.

In sum, this is an impressive piece of research and I look forward to seeing it
published. I particularly like the combination of formal theory and rigorous
empirical analysis and the conclusions are thoughtfully discussed.
